Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a comedy, horror,
and mystery film called "Vivarium."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Gemma works as a kindergarten teacher at a
small school.
After her classes, she joins her boyfriend,
Tom, who works as the school groundskeeper.
The couple is currently looking for a new
home, planning to start a family.
So they head to a small office for Yonder,
a new real estate company.
The couple enters, and a man welcomes them,
introducing himself as Martin.
Martin begins by telling them about a subdivision,
Yonder, and how it'd be perfect for young
couples looking for a new home.
Tom and Gemma notice Martin is a little eccentric,
talking and behaving strangely, but they continue
to listen to him.
Martin invites them to Yonder, but they are
hesitant.
Gemma says they're not looking for a suburban
home, but Martin insists that the low prices
attract more people, telling Tom and Gemma
that the houses could run out soon.
Finally, Gemma decides a quick look wouldn't
hurt, and they agree to follow Martin.
They drive for a while before arriving at
Yonder.
Yonder is filled with rows upon rows of houses,
all indistinguishable from each other.
They stop at house 9, and Martin shows them
inside.
They go through the rooms, and Martin offers
drinks and a snack, but the couple rejects.
They head upstairs, arriving at a nursery,
and Martin asks if they have children.
Gemma answers no, and Martin mimics what she
said, even sounding and acting like her.
They head to the backyard, but Martin disappears.
Gemma and Tom step out and see Martin’s
car is gone.
They take it as a sign to leave, and they
start driving out.
They try to navigate through the endless houses
but find that they keep returning to house
9.
They try their cellphones and see they have
no reception.
They keep driving for several more hours but
somehow always end up at house 9.
Night comes, and their car runs out of gas.
They coincidentally end up at house 9.
Hungry and cold, they decide to head into
the house.
They eat the food Martin had offered them
earlier and discover the food has no taste.
The following day, Tom decides to climb the
roof, hoping to see which direction they should
head in.
He's dismayed to see the houses in Yonder
stretch out into the horizon.
Tom suggests they follow the setting sun and
maintain that direction until they reach the
edge.
They start walking, jumping over hedges, and
climbing fences, making sure they keep their
bearing.
After several hours, the two are exhausted
and find a house with lights on.
They enter and see they're once again back
at house 9.
Gemma finds a box full of food and supplies
in front of the house, and she starts calling
out to whoever delivered it.
Tom dumps the box's contents and uses it to
set fire to the house.
Tom hopes the fire and smoke would alert nearby
authorities, thinking the fire department
would come.
They sleep at the curb and wake up the following
day to another box.
Gemma opens it and finds an infant boy.
House 9 remains standing, unaffected by the
fire.
Time passes, and the infant appears to have
aged ten years.
Tom and Gemma wake up to the child waiting
for them.
The kid then starts talking, seemingly mimicking
things Tom and Gemma had said.
The child then demands Gemma to measure his
height.
It’s revealed that the kid is only three
months old.
He then starts screaming, and Tom and Gemma
rush to give him breakfast.
The couple joins him, and they eat in silence.
Tom places their leftover food along with
all the trash in a box and brings it outside.
Tom and Gemma then sit on the lawn, waiting
for whoever picks up their trash to show up.
Gemma says their wait is futile as the garbage
never gets collected if they watch.
Gemma observes that the boy always watches
them, and Tom corrects her, saying the creature
is not human.
Tom then lights a cigarette, smokes it, and
drops it on the grass, but the grass opens
up, revealing the dirt.
Tom strikes the ground with a pickaxe and
peels layers off.
He gets more equipment, and he and Gemma start
digging.
Gemma checks the box full of trash and sees
it has vanished.
She asks the boy if he took the box, but he
remains quiet.
She tries to tell Tom, but Tom ignores her,
asking Gemma to leave him alone and let him
dig.
Later that night, the couple gets intimate
in bed, and the boy watches them in secret.
The following day, Tom continues digging and
has produced a sizable mound of dirt on the
yard.
Gemma is stuck inside doing the laundry, and
the boy turns on the T.V., mesmerized, watching
a strange feed showing squiggly lines on the
screen.
Tom keeps digging into the night and joins
Gemma inside his car.
Tom says he likes staying in the car as it
has an odor.
Unlike everything else in Yonder, the car
is the only thing that feels real to him.
Gemma agrees, saying she likes staying in
the car to breathe it in.
Tom accidentally hits the car radio, and it
turns on.
The two are shocked to discover it is still
working.
They step out and start dancing, appearing
happy for the first time in a while.
The boy watches them and eventually joins
in, dancing.
He gets in the middle and trips Tom.
Tom falls and hits his head on the curb.
Angered, he picks up the boy and slams him
onto the asphalt.
Gemma checks to see if the boy is alright,
and he appears unharmed, smiling.
Gemma is concerned about the boy, but the
boy gets back up and continues dancing.
Later, Gemma is tucking the boy into bed.
She tells him that he has to understand that
she and Tom can't be with him at all times,
trying to explain to the boy why they prefer
being away from him.
The boy nods and says goodnight, calling Gemma
his mother.
Gemma corrects him, saying she's not his mother.
The boy then starts screaming, and Gemma orders
the kid to stop, saying they've done everything
he wanted.
Gemma asks what he wants, and the boy begs
her to be his mother.
Gemma is disgusted, shouting at the boy and
leaving him.
She then heads to bed and initiates intimacy
with Tom, but Tom doesn't respond.
Instead, he apologizes, saying he's not in
the mood.
The following day, the boy walks in and wakes
Tom and Gemma up with screaming.
They then head to breakfast, and Gemma asks
Tom what he'll be doing for the day.
She asks if he'll continue digging and Tom
nods.
Gemma tries asking more questions, but Tom
doesn't appear to be in a conversing mood.
Tom continues digging in the hole until he
hears a strange sound coming from deeper underground.
Later at night, Tom is awakened, hearing the
strange sound again.
He rushes to the living room and finds the
peculiar sound coming from the T.V. that the
boy is watching.
Tom turns the T.V. off, but the boy turns
it back on.
Gemma then turns it off, reprimanding the
boy, but the boy continues watching.
Finally, they give up and leave him.
The following day, the boy is screaming again,
waiting to be served breakfast.
Tom finally snaps and picks the boy up.
He locks the boy in his car, intending to
starve him.
Gemma protests, but Tom holds her back.
Tom drags Gemma inside, pinning her to the
floor.
He tries to talk sense into her, telling her
the boy controls her, making her act as the
boy's mother.
Finally, Tom lets Gemma go and tells her he
will no longer allow her to help the boy.
He argues that whoever gave them the boy would
have to intervene to stop the boy from starving
to death.
Gemma then asks if they’re going to stand
by and watch the boy die, and Tom corrects
her, telling her the child is not a boy, nor
is it human, asking her to stop referring
to it as such.
Gemma then takes the car keys and retrieves
the boy.
She apologizes to the child, saying Tom wouldn’t
hurt him.
Tom looks on, menacingly, at the boy and Gemma.
Tom continues digging at night, coughing and
heaving.
He tries to communicate with the voices he
hears from underground, shouting, asking if
the voices can hear him.
Inside the house, Gemma chats with the boy,
explaining to him what dreams are.
She then sleeps next to him.
Tom wakes up the following morning after sleeping
in the hole.
He enters the house coughing.
He runs into Gemma and the boy, who are on
their way out but say nothing.
Tom then eats breakfast in silence.
Gemma and the boy are lying in a field, having
a picnic.
Gemma points to a cloud and asks what the
boy thinks the cloud is in the shape of.
He answers that it’s in the form of a cloud.
She points to another one, and the boy tells
her the same.
Gemma tells the boy that the clouds outside
of Yonder come in different shapes and sizes.
All clouds in Yonder are shaped perfectly
to look like clouds.
Gemma lays in bed at night, sobbing, while
Tom remains outside in the cold, sleeping
in his hole.
The following day, Gemma notices that the
boy had gone missing.
So she starts looking for him, walking through
the neighborhoods.
She arrives back at the house by late afternoon
and sees the boy standing by the hole.
She runs to him and asks him where he’s
been all day, but the boy doesn’t answer
and instead hands Gemma a book.
Gemma looks through the book and finds it
full of strange and alien symbols.
The book appears to be an informative research
book that seems to have been written by someone
or something studying humans.
It has illustrations and diagrams about humans
and how humanity lives and reproduces.
Tom refuses to sleep in the house and decides
to keep sleeping in the hole.
Unfortunately, this has led to him developing
a coughing fit.
So he remains outside in the cold even though
he's visibly in a lot of discomforts.
Gemma talks to the boy and asks him where
he’s been.
The boy says he’s met someone but is not
allowed to say who or what it was.
Gemma then invites the boy to play pretend.
She asks him to act as Tom, and the boy complies,
mimicking Tom’s voice and saying things
Tom has said in the past.
Gemma then asks the boy to pretend to be her,
and the boy does the same thing.
Finally, she asks the boy to act like the
person he met when he disappeared, and the
boy starts growling.
Two lumps appear on the boy’s throat, and
he produces an ungodly screeching sound.
Gemma reels back, terrified of the creature
talking to her.
She starts crying, saying she wants to go
home, and the boy smiles, telling her she’s
already home.
More time passes, and the child has grown
into a man.
Gemma serves him dinner, and the man asks
why Gemma is still polite to him.
He asks if she's afraid of him, and Gemma
says she's unsure.
She then takes food to Tom, who's staying
in their bedroom, barring the door.
They eat in the bedroom, and Gemma tells Tom
she regrets not allowing Tom to kill the man
when he was young.
After their meal, Gemma takes Tom to the bathroom
and cleans him.
Tom's body is marked with bruises, and he
is noticeably having trouble walking.
Later that afternoon, Gemma prepares to head
out, planning on following the man.
The man walks through Yonder, and Gemma tries
her best to follow him, but it seems that
the man disappears and reappears all over
the neighborhoods, so Gemma cannot keep up
with him.
That night, a weak Tom continues digging.
He finally strikes something and digs it out
excitedly.
He succeeds and discovers that it’s a bag
with a body inside.
He rushes to climb out of the hole, terrified.
Meanwhile, Gemma is having trouble finding
her way back.
Tom calls out to her, and she calls back.
She runs, following the sound of Tom’s voice.
Tom collapses to the sidewalk, unable to shout,
and Gemma finally arrives, discovering Tom
suffering on the ground.
She carries Tom back to the house, but the
door is locked.
She tries knocking, demanding the man to let
them in, but the man ignores her.
She brings Tom to the car, and they sleep
inside it.
The man leaves the house the following day,
and Gemma asks for his help as Tom gets sicker.
The man smiles and tells her he thinks the
time has come to release Tom.
He leaves them, and Gemma cradles Tom in her
arms on the sidewalk.
They reminisce, talking about the night they
first met and how Tom ended up waking up in
Gemma's apartment the morning after.
Tom says he felt like he was at home in Gemma's
apartment when he laid eyes on her.
Tom then closes his eyes and stops breathing.
The man returns carrying a box, and Gemma
opens it to find a body bag for Tom.
She starts crying and sobbing, and the man
mimics her.
The man then places Tom in the body bag and
throws him down the hole Tom had dug.
Gemma awakens the following morning, waiting
for the man to leave the house.
As the man leaves, Gemma walks up behind him
with a pickaxe.
She tries to strike the man, but the man manages
to dodge, snarling at her.
The man starts crawling towards the sidewalk,
grabbing it and lifting it.
He crawls underneath the sidewalk, but Gemma
manages to follow him inside.
Gemma drops in and finds herself in a strange
red-tinted living room.
She finds a young boy watching television
but sees that it's a different boy.
She goes to the kitchen and finds a woman
sobbing.
The floor opens up, swallowing Gemma, and
she drops into a bedroom where a couple is
having intercourse.
A man is with them, applauding.
Gemma again sinks into the floor and finds
herself in a bathroom, where she discovers
a dead man in the tub.
She slips into the floor again and finds herself
back at house 9.
She falls to the ground, defeated.
She then asks the man what Yonder is and why
this is happening to them.
The man doesn’t answer but tells Gemma she
is a mother, and her only purpose now is to
die.
The man places her in a body bag, and Gemma
says all she and Tom ever wanted was a home.
The man laughs once again, telling her she’s
already home.
As the man zips up the bag, Gemma lets out
one final remark, telling the man that she
is not his mother.
The man then drags Gemma down the stairs before
throwing her into the hole with Tom.
He covers up the hole, gets Tom’s car, and
drives out of Yonder.
He arrives back in town to Yonder’s small
office and finds Martin waiting for him.
Martin has aged dramatically, barely able
to move.
Martin hands the man his nametag, and the
man gets a body bag from a drawer and places
Martin inside.
The man then folds up the body bag with Martin
inside, and it crunches up, fitting into a
drawer.
The man then sits at the desk, waiting for
another hopeful couple, eager to take them
to Yonder.